Hello, my friends, and welcome to this new practical activity of part nine dimensionality reduction.
So in the previous section, we experimented with PCI, a principal component analysis, and we indeed
got great results with our wine dataset, which will be the same data set for this new section, because,
you know, we want to compare several dimensionality reduction techniques.
So there we go.
We're going to see if we can even beat BCA, which only had one incorrect prediction.
So we're going to work with the same set.
And therefore, the implementation will be exactly the same, except one cell, which will be the cell,
of course, where we implement LDA instead of Pichette.
All right, I'm ready.
Let's do this before we get into this for the partner and let's make sure everyone here is on the same
page.
I give you the link to this for there containing all the codes and data sets right before this to Tokyo.
So make sure to connect to it.
And now here we go.
Let's end two part nine dimensionality reduction.
And now we're gonna go into Section 44 Linear Discriminant Analysis LDA, which will be a new technique
of dimensionality reduction.
Very powerful, as we will see.
So let's start with Python, as usual.
And there we go.
This folder, just as a previous one, has two fouls.
This is the implementation.
And this is the same wine dataset which, you know, belongs to a wine shop business owner who first
asked you, you know, the most talented data scientist to do some clustering to identify different
customer segments for each of, you know, the wines of this dataset.
You know, each row of this data set corresponds to a certain wine.
And for each one, we have several wine features or, you know, characteristics all these up to here.
And you used all these features to identify those three customer segments or, you know, customer clusters.
And after which, you know, since this wine shop owner was so happy and impressed by your job, well,
then, of course, the owner asked you to do another mission, which is the one we're about to do with
LDA, which consist of building a predictive moral combine, two dimensionality reduction applied to
this dataset so that for each new wine that this owner has in its wine shop.
Well, by deploying this new predictive model, this owner will be able to predict which customer segment
this new wine belongs to so that it can recommend this new wine to the right customers and therefore
optimize eventually the sales.
All right.
That's exactly the same data set.
And now let's move on to our implementation.
Linear discriminant analysis, which we can either open with Google Collaboratory as I'm doing it now,
or Dupere in notebook.
And as you notice, I kept this previous implementation we did on PCH so that we can, you know, compare
the results.
Indian, right.
This is BCA.
This is LDA.
But, you know, since this isn't read only mode, we're going to create now a copy so that we can reimplement
that cell that builds the LDA model.
So there we go, save a copy in drive.
This will create a copy inside of which will be able to reimplement the LDA model.
All right.
And now we can, you know, close this so that we can have the two implementations next to each other,
you know, the two copies.
And now let's do this.
Let's quickly remove, you know, the cell that implements the LDA.
This one.
And let's reimplement this because, you know, all the rest is the same.
I will actually remove all these outputs here so that you don't see the final results and we can keep
them as a surprise.
So let me just remove the outputs, too.
Don't look too close.
And there we go.
All right.
So basically, all the cells of this implementation are exactly the same as the previous one BCA, except,
of course, the cell that implements LDA right here.
So no need to re-explain on this.
Plus, all these other cells result from our diverse toolkit.
So you're definitely 100 percent familiar with them.
All right.
So let's do this.
Let's, you know, apply lda.
So we're going to create a new code cell.
And there we go.
Let's implement linear discriminant analysis.
So now you have two options.
The first and the best option is to press bus on the video and try to implement this yourself by, of
course, browsing the Seigler an API and find that LDA class that can implement that LDA dimensionality
reduction technique and you will definitely end up with the same solution.
I will implement in a few seconds.
And the second option is, of course, to well, not press pause on the video and implement with me
the solution in, let's say, three seconds.
Three, two, one, and go.
All right, let's do this.
Let's implement together lda.
So as I've just said, we're gonna implement LDA things to do cycler in library.
Therefore, we're gonna.
From České.
Learn from which we're gonna get access to this time, not, you know, the.
Well, let me go to Peter here.
Not the decomposition module of psych learned, but a new one, which is very easy to remember because
this is actually discriminant.
Underscore.
Analysis.
OK.
That's another module of cycler, and it contains, of course, the class that can implement LTA and
that class.
Well, you know, after this import here, we have to add the name of this class and the name of this
class is Capital L..
And then very simply, linear discriminant analysis.
All right.
Very good.
The reason why Google killer, by the way, is not helping me with the suggestions is because the notebook
is not running.
And remember to run the notebook or, you know, to connect it.
Well, you need to either run any of the first cells or upload the data set.
So let's do it right now so that, you know, Google Kulab can assist me.
I really love it when it does it.
So right now, I just clicked on this for the button and then let's click the upload button and we will
end up in the know previous folder for principal component analysis.
But let me show you the path again.
I put my machine learning.
It is that folder in my desktop.
So inside, we're gonna go now to Part nine and then Section 44, linear discriminant analysis and Python.
And then one.
All right.
So this is exactly the same dataset as before, but I just wanted to show you the path.
And there we go.
We have the one.
And so now I'm going to show you if I retype this linear discriminant, see?
Now it is helping me.
So that's maybe better to have, you know, this reflex to upload data set right at the beginning.
OK.
So linear discriminant, analysis.
But since this class name is actually pretty long and pretty, not practical.
Well, it's just, you know, add a simple shortcut like lda.
We can do this.
That's solid.
Fine.
And now let's press enter to move on to the next step, which is, of course, naturally to create an
object of this linear discriminant analysis class.
All right.
So, of course, we're going to call it LDA.
Right.
And now we're going to call this class.
And since we gave it the shortcut LDA, well, we can simply call lda this way.
And now.
Well, exactly the same as before.
This LDA class needs to take as input only one argument, which is exactly the same as before.
And also it has the exact same name.
It is an component's which corresponds, of course, to the final number of extracted features.
You want to end up with after applying this dimensionality reduction technique.
And of course, as I recommended in the previous section, we're going to start with two so that we
can see it even with only two extracted features.
Well, we can get great results.
And if that's the case, well, not only will get great results, but also cherry on the cake.
We'll be able to visualize the results on a nice to plot Indian, you know, thanks to these two code
section.
All right.
But right now, we need to finish this.
There we go.
We're gonna extract only two features.
In the end.
And to do this, we need now, of course, to connect our LDA object to our data set.
But once again, separately, the training set and the test set and two connected.
Well, of course, we need to apply the fit transform method to the training set and then only to transform
method on the test.
That's for the exact same reason as before.
It is to avoid information leakage from the test set.
All right.
So let's do this.
That's our next step here.
So we're gonna take first X train, right, which we're going to update to become the new X train.
After we reapply this LDA feature extraction technique.
And to do this well, we need to take, of course, our LDA object from which we're gonna call the fit
transform method, which will take as input.
Well, here.
Be careful.
It's not gonna be exactly the same input as before because, you know, with PCI a the fit transfer
method took only extranet as input because it only need the features to apply this PCI a dimensionality
reduction technique.
But LDA is actually different in order to apply the technique.
It needs not only the features, but also the dependent variable rate dependent variable is a required
element inside the equation of LTA.
And therefore, here in the fit transfer method, we need to input not only X train the old version
of extreme before we apply LDA and Y train.
All right.
So be very careful with this.
Whether you choose to apply LDA or BCA for PCI.
You only have to input extra in and for LDA.
You have to input both the features X strain and the depending foible Y train.
All right.
Final step.
Well, now that we have an LDA feature extractor object fitted to the training set, well, we can apply
it to the test set by only calling the transform method.
Right.
It doesn't make sense to fit it again to the test set because the test set is supposed to be new data
on which we deploy our moral like in production.
Therefore, we must only apply the transform method here.
And therefore I'm updating our X test variable the following way by first calling our LDA object from
which we're only gonna call the trend form method.
And now, according to you, does it need to take only X test as input or.
Test and white test.
Well, obviously, it only need to take X test because we're not supposed to have Y tests.
You know, X test is like new data on which we're going to deploy our model.
Then we'll get our predictions and y bread, you know, and we'll compare Wipro to whitest.
But we're not supposed to have white tests because whites are the real result that contained the hidden
truth.
You know, the ground truth.
So, of course, here we only need to apply X test.
And the reason why we could enter waitering here is because indeed, we're supposed to get the ground
truth of the training set.
Otherwise, we wouldn't be able to train our machine learning model.
All right.
So access and there we go.
Not only the implementation of LDA is over, but also the whole implementation is over as well.
So now we're going to do this run.
All now that we, you know, uploaded the data, sent into the notebooks, we are 100 percent ready.
And let's just remind what we want to improve compared to previously.
Well, you know, in the principal component analysis implementation we had when obtaining the computer
matrix on the one incorrect prediction resulting in having an accuracy of 97 percent.
And in the test that results, which are the most interesting ones.
Well, we had indeed an almost perfect separation of the three classes.
And now we're gonna see if with our new feature extracted from LDA.
Well, we can get a perfect separation of the classes and therefore 100 percent accuracy.
Are you ready?
Let's do this.
Three, two, one, go, run.
Also now all the cells are running and there we go.
Oh, there we go.
We just had a 100 percent accuracy.
So, in other words, are logistic regression model Westerley able to classify perfectly our three classes
by separating them separately?
And that's exactly what we're gonna see.
And, you know, the test set results because indeed.
Well, we almost had an incorrect one here.
But as we see the real Wein's, you know, which are all the points here, red, green and blue fall
into the right prediction regions, that red prediction region where our models predict that the wine
belongs to customer segment number one.
Then this one where our model predicts that the wines belong to customer segment number two.
And finally, this Brigden region where our model predicts that the wine should be recommended to customer
segment number three.
And thanks to these new extracted features, no LG one and LG two, well, this time we have a perfect
class separator.
In other words, we have a perfect classifier.
And if you're wondering how did LDA manage to separate perfectly the classes?
Whereas, you know, in PPA, we could see that it was very difficult to separate, you know, the wines
of the test set.
You know, especially this one.
This one falls in the middle of the red wines.
Well, that's because to extract these features are different.
You know, they're not the same as P.c one and pursue two.
There are, you know, in some other dimensions in which, well, this time it is possible to separate
perfectly the classes.
And that's why this time it works.
We are, in other words, in another dimension.
OK.
So I guess now we don't have much of a challenge because it's impossible to beat this.
This is just perfect.
I remind that I did not make this data set.
You know, it's a dataset taken from the UCI email registry.
So, you know, it's very close to a real world data set.
But there you go.
That shows the power of this dimensionality reduction technique.
Linear discriminant analysis.
So now we're going to move on to the next practical activity, the next section on this time.
Colonel, T.S.A..
And we can just hope that we'll get, you know, at least as good results, SPCA or some as good results
as LDA.
In other words, let's hope that we get maximum one incorrect prediction.
So I look forward to seeing you in this next section to implement Colonel BCA and until then, enjoy
machine learning.